The President:
Hello, everybody.
Over the last few weeks,
there's been a lot of talk about
deadlines we're facing on jobs
and taxes and investments.
But with so much noise and so
many opinions flying around,
it can be easy to lose sight
of what this debate is
really about.
It's not about which political
party comes out on top,
or who wins or
loses in Washington.
It's about making smart
decisions that will have a real
impact on your lives and the
lives of Americans all across
the country.
Right now, middle-class tax cuts
are set to expire at the end
of the year.
Time's running out.
And there are two
things that can happen.
First, if Congress does nothing,
every family in America will see
their income taxes automatically
go up on January 1st.
A typical middle-class
family of four would get a
$2,200 tax hike.
That would be bad for families,
it'd be bad for businesses,
and it would drag down
our entire economy.
Now, Congress can avoid all
of this by passing a law that
prevents a tax hike on the first
$250,000 of everybody's income.
That means 98% of Americans and
97% of small businesses wouldn't
see their income taxes
go up by a single dime.
Even the wealthiest Americans
would get a tax cut on the first
$250,000 of their income.
And families everywhere would
enjoy some peace of mind.
The Senate has already
done their part.
Now we're just waiting for
Republicans in the House to do
the same thing.
But so far, they've put forward
an unbalanced plan that actually
lowers rates for the
wealthiest Americans.
If we want to protect
the middle class,
then the math just doesn't work.
We can and should do more
than just extend middle
class tax cuts.
And I stand ready to work with
Republicans on a plan that spurs
economic growth, creates jobs
and reduces our deficit --
a plan that gives both sides
some of what they want.
I'm willing to find ways to
bring down the cost of health
care without hurting seniors
and other Americans who
depend on it.
And I'm willing to make more
entitlement spending cuts on top
of the $1 trillion dollars in
spending cuts I signed into
law last year.
But if we're serious about
reducing our deficit while still
investing in things like
education and research that are
important to growing
our economy --
and if we're serious about
protecting middle-class families
-- then we're also going to have
to ask the wealthiest Americans
to pay higher tax rates.
That's one principle I
won't compromise on.
After all, this was a central
question in the election.
A clear majority of Americans
-- Democrats, Republicans and
Independents -- agreed with
a balanced approach that asks
something from everyone, but a
little more from those who can
afford it the most.
It's the only way to put our
economy on a sustainable path
without asking even more
from the middle class.
And it's the only kind of
plan I'm willing to sign.
Everyone agrees we need to bring
down our deficit and strengthen
our economy for the long-term.
The question is whether we can
do it in a responsible way that
allows us to keep investing in
the things that have always made
America strong.
I'm convinced we can.
And if both sides are
willing to compromise,
I believe we can give businesses
and families a sense of security
going into the New Year.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.